Blockchain is a type of DLT in which transactions are recorded with an unique cryptographic signature called a hash
making it difficult or impossible to change, hack, or cheat the system. It works on the principle of the peer-to-peer transaction.

A blockchain is basically a digital ledger of transactions that is duplicated and distributed across the 
entire network of computer systems on the blockchain. Each block in the chain contains a number of transactions, 
and every time a new transaction occurs on the blockchain, a record of that transaction is added to every participant’s ledger. 
The decentralised database managed by multiple participants is known as Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT).


This means if one block in one chain was changed, it would be immediately apparent it had been tampered with. 
If hackers wanted to corrupt a blockchain system, they would have to change every block in the chain, 
across all of the distributed versions of the chain.

Blockchains such as Bitcoin and Ethereum are constantly and 
continually growing as blocks are being added to the chain, which significantly adds to the security of the ledger.



Centralised Ledger: 
Most companies currently use a centralised database that lives in a fixed location. 
A centralised database essentially has a single point of failure. it can cause a great blunder upon failure //bank govt

Distributed Ledger:
A database that exists across several locations or among multiple participants, decentralized to eliminate the need for a 
central authority or intermediary to process, validate or authenticate transactions. 
//The records are only ever stored in the ledger when the consensus has been reached by the parties involved.

blockchain can be thought of blocks connected in a chain containing information
A transaction is a value transfer; a block is a collection of transactions on the network, 
gathered into a block that are hashed and added to the blockchain. 
each block contains generally 3 elements --> transaction infos,hash,hash of previous block


Decentralization- This is the most important feature of Blockchain technology which means that all the information is spread 
across the network thus making is easily accessible and less pervasive to hacking.

Immutability– The information once entered in the edger cannot be altered or changed. 
Thus the security of data becomes a key feature of DLT or Distributed Ledger Technology.


Security- Data security is the key feature of the Blockchain. All the data and information in the ledger is encrypted. 
Thus it cannot be altered or changed.


No third party interference– one of the key features that Blockchain offers is peer-to-peer interaction which means, 
the two parties can directly interact with each other. It saves time as there is no need for the third party to approve the transaction.

Cost saving- The primary objective of any new technology is to offer quick service which saves time and money. 
Thankfully, Blockchain fits in both these parameters. 
As mentioned above the absence of third-party saves time, similarly, 
it also reduces the cost of the transaction by minimizing transaction or processing fees.
















